
Week 3 - Day 7: Tasks
HTML Note 
Section 2.4 HTML Elements Should Describe Web Page Content Accurately
An overarching goal in web programming is to use appropriate HTML
elements so your web page’s content is described accurately. For example, if you have text that forms what would normally be considered a paragraph, then surround the text with a p element, not
some other element (like div ). Likewise, if you want to display words
as a heading, use a heading element ( h1 - h6 ), not some other
element (like strong ).
A complementary overarching goal in web programming is to use
HTML elements so your web page’s content is described fully. For
example, if you have a title for your web page, it would be legal to
enter the title as plain text, and not have it be inside a container. But
don’t do that. Instead, put the title text inside a title element.
So, why is it good practice to describe web page content accurately and
fully? It’s a form of documentation, and documentation helps
programmers understand and maintain the web page code more easily.
Another benefit of describing web page content accurately and fully is
that it enables you (the programmer) to manipulate the web page more
effectively using CSS and JavaScript. For example, if you use p
elements for all your paragraphs, you can use CSS to make all the
paragraphs indented for their first lines. As another example, if you use
heading elements ( h1 - h6 ) for all your headings, you can use
JavaScript to make all the headings larger when a button is clicked.So, how is this goal enforced whereby elements are used to accurately
and fully describe
the web page’s content? Unfortunately, there’s nothing in the HTML5
standard or in the W3C’s HTML validation service that enforces this
goal. Consequently, much of the enforcement is left up to programmers’
due diligence. For example, the HTML validation service will allow you
to surround a paragraph of text with h1 tags or no tags at all. It’s up
to you not to do that; instead, you should surround the text with p
tags.
